A MODULE is a separately saved unit whose functionality can be reused at will.
A PACKAGE is a directory for sub packages and modules.
A LIBRARY describes a collection of core modules that together cater a specific typr of needs or application.

Important libraries of python for DATA SCIENCE:
1. Matplotlib: It helps with data analyzing, and is a numerical plotting library. 
2. Pandas: It provides fast, expressive, and flexible data structures to easily (and intuitively) work with structured (tabular, multidimensional, potentially heterogeneous) and time-series data.
3. Requests: It lets you send HTTP, add headers, form data, multipart files, and parameters with simple Python dictionaries. It also lets you access the response data in the same way.
4. NumPy: It has advanced math functions and a rudimentary scientific computing package.
5. SQLAlchemy: It is a library with well-known enterprise-level patterns.It was designed for efficient and high-performing database-access.
6. BeautifulSoup: It may be a bit slow, BeautifulSoup has an excellent XML- and HTML- parsing library for beginners.
7. Pyglet: It is an excellent choice for an object-oriented programming interface in developing games. In fact, it also finds use in developing other visually-rich applications for Mac OS X, Windows, and Linux.
8. SciPy: It has a number of user-friendly and efficient numerical routines. These include routines for optimization and numerical integration.
9. Scrapy: If your motive is fast, high-level screen scraping and web crawling, go for Scrapy. You can use it for purposes from data mining to monitoring and automated testing.
10. PyGame: It provides an extremely easy interface to the Simple Directmedia Library (SDL) platform-independent graphic, audio, and input libraries.
11. Python Twisted: An event-driven networking engine, Twisted is written in Python, and licensed under the open-source MIT license.
12. Pillow: It is a friendly fork of PIL (Python Imaging Library).
13. pywin32: This provides useful methods and class for interaction with Windows, as the name suggests.
14. wxPython: It is a wrapper around wxWidgets for Python. An alternative of tkinter.
15. iPython: It has an architecture that facilitates parallel and distributed computing. With it, you can develop, execute, debug, and monitor parallel applications.
16. Nose: It delivers an alternate test discovery and running process for unittest. This intends to mimic py.test’s behavior as much as it can.
17. Flask: A web framework, Flask is built with a small core and many extensions.
18. SymPy: It is an open-source library for symbolic math. With very simple and comprehensible code that is easily extensible, SymPy is a full-fledged Computer Algebra System (CAS). It is written in Python, and hence does not need external libraries.
19. Fabric: Along with being a library, Fabric is a command-line tool for streamlining the use of SSH for application deployment or systems administration tasks. With it, you can execute local or remote shell commands, upload/download files, and even prompt running user for input, or abort execution.
20. PyGTK: It lets you easily create programs with a GUI (Graphical User Interface) with Python.
21. StatsModels: It has a function for statistical analysis to achieve high-performance outcomes while processing large statistical data sets.
22. Plotly: This library is used for plotting graphs easily. This works very well in interactive web applications.
23. Pydot: It is used for generating complex oriented and non-oriented graphs. It is specially used while developing algorithms based on neural networks and decision trees.
24. Gensim: It is for topic modelling, document indexing, which means it is able to extract the underlying topics from a large volume of text. It can handle large text files without loading the entire file in memory.
25. tkinter:It provides traditional Python user interface toolkit & helps to  create userfriendly GUI interface for different types of applications.
26. pendulum: It eases the DateTime manipulation. It provides a cleaner and easier way to use API.
27. MoviePy: Module for video editing, which can be used for basic operations (like cuts, concatenations, title insertions), video compositing (a.k.a. non-linear editing), video processing, or to create advanced effects.
28. Requests: It is the de facto standard for making HTTP requests in Python.
29. PyQt: It is a Python binding for Qt, which is a set of C++ libraries and development tools that include platform-independent abstractions for Graphical User Interfaces (GUI), as well as networking, threads, regular expressions, SQL databases, SVG, OpenGL, XML, and many other powerful features.
30. Pywin32: It is a very thin wrapper of python that allows us to interact with COM objects and automate Windows applications with python. 
31. PyTest: It is a testing framework that allows users to write test codes using Python programming language. ... PyTest is mainly used for writing tests for APIs.
32. Keras: It is an open-source deep neural network library.
33. NLTK: Natural Language Toolkit is a set of language processing libraries and other programs that cumulatively provide a numerical and symbolic language processing solution for English only. 
34. Fire: It is a powerful library that can derive CLIs from literally any python objects. 
35. Arrow: It is a friendly library that basically works with dates and times. Arrow comes with a smart API.
36. FlashText: It offers easy search and replacement of words from documents. All FlashText needs is a set of words and string. Then it identifies some words as keywords and replaces them from Text Data.
37. Cirq: It is for noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) circuits. Cirq works into depth and focuses on revealing the detail components of the hardware.
38. Luminoth: It is a python built toolkit – dedicated for computer vision.
39. Delorean: It is for enhancing DateTime.  
40. Bokeh: It is a data visualization library for python.  
41. Poetry: It is an easy tool for Python. It allows you to manage python packaging and dependencies.
42. NetworkX: It offers immense solutions for studying and diagnosing graphs of all levels. It also helps you to develop and influence the architecture, motion, and functionalities of high-quality networks.
43. TextBlob: It is one of the most simplified Python NLP libraries – for textual data processing.
44. Mahotas/Computer Vision: It is a image processing library




Important libraries/modules of python for MACHINE LEARNING:
1. Scikit: It is a free software machine learning library and can be effectively used for a variety of applications which include classification, regression, clustering, model selection, naive Bayes’, grade boosting, K-means, and preprocessing.
2. NuPIC: The Numenta Platform for Intelligent Computing (NuPIC) is a platform which aims to implement an HTM learning algorithm and make them public source as well.
3. Ramp: It is used for rapid prototyping of machine learning models. Ramp provides a simple, declarative syntax for exploring features, algorithms, and transformations. It is a lightweight pandas-based machine learning framework and can be used seamlessly with existing python machine learning and statistics tools.
4. Pipenv: The cardinal purpose is to provide users with a working environment which is easy to set up.
5. TensorFlow: The most popular deep learning framework, TensorFlow is an open-source software library for high-performance numerical computation.
6. Bob: It is a free signal processing and machine learning toolbox.  (From image recognition to image and video processing using machine learning algorithms)
7. PyTorch: It is a which gives the user a blend of 2 high-level features – Tensor computation (like NumPy) with strong GPU acceleration and developing Deep Neural Networks on a tape-based auto diff system. 
8. PyBrain: It provides flexible yet sophisticated and powerful algorithms for machine learning with many pre-determined environments to test and compare your algorithms. 
9.Theano: This open-source library enables you to define, optimize, and evaluate mathematical expressions involving multi-dimensional arrays efficiently. 
10. OpenCV Python: Open Source Computer Vision or OpenCV is used for image processing.


